It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong, you're watching
the China Show. I'm Annabelle Drooers
with David and Glaz.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open at markets in greater China. Our
top stories today, stocks across the
Asia Pacific extending record highs
after big tech regains momentum when you
look at all the Wall Street session. The
dollar holding losses and Treasury
steady as traders await US jobs and also
inflation reports. Chinese regulators,
meanwhile, advising financial
institutions [music] to cut exposure to
US debt, citing concerns over
concentration risk and volatility.
>> And Alphabet goes on a bond spree to
fund its massive AI spending plans,
raising [music] $20 billion from an
offering and pitching investors in
Switzerland and also in the UK.
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to the program. We
are approaching the Tuesday open and the
tailwinds are blowing in the direction
of bulls today. As you can see, 9 cents
of 1% to the upside on the regional
benchmark. We are just getting a couple
of markets coming online. We'll talk
about that in a moment. But yes, risk
appetite is back. Uh there's the other
big story of course we're talking about
as it pertains to that the U are
reporting that China is asking its banks
to you know have a look at your balance
sheets and have a look at sort of risk
management as it pertains to exposure to
treasuries.
>> Yeah, this is an interesting one because
they're concerned I guess about the
volatility and and then then could it be
fiscal concerns as well? What direction
is the governor uh new governor or the
Fed going to be taking as well and and
how does that play into the dynamic? I
think though really our Bloomberg
intelligence team had one of the most
interesting takes on this and they're
sort of not downplaying it but they're
just putting it into perspective really
Bank of China is most exposed but how
exposed of the institutions generally in
China
>> in the event we get a massive leg up in
yields right and what does that mean of
course is sort of mark to market and
what you're sitting at as far as your
balance sheet is concerned but you can
see when you look at the move index
right which is a good gauge of u the
fluctuations in a bond market it doesn't
seem like there's a lot of volume in
there. But again, we're moving into a
lot of uncertainty with the new Fed
>> uh chairman and you know his stance
towards balance sheet reduction and what
that means really for Treasury exposure
generally speaking. Uh the other big
thing to talk about and this is somewhat
related to this big bond spree. Right.
So
>> bond issuers are looking at a window of
opportunity where spreads are tight.
Yes.
>> And rates are not high and they're
tapping the bond markets like there's no
tomorrow. [laughter] Well, I think if of
course I mean the big story overnight
was Alphabet and then at $20 billion in
issuance huge amount of demand for this
because it's $15 billion more than they
were intending and also investors were
lining up for it and and spreads to your
point is really interesting. Also the
teners are very interesting because as
part of this not right now but they're
looking at a hundredyear tenner and we
haven't seen that going back to the
dotcom era. No, no, it's a reminder to
have your vegetables in case you want
to, you know, wait this one to maturity.
Um, on 100. So, so Bill and I were just
talking before the show started. We were
looking at some big numbers, right? So,
I was trying to figure out uh 650
billion Us in 2026, four biggest US tech
companies. Um, I think some of the
figures here too, I'm just going through
the notes because there's too many
numbers. Um, Morgan Stanley expects 400
billion this year, up from 65 billion.
Um I think we're looking at a record
2.25
trillion. Right? So will there be enough
liquidity in this market? And what does
it mean for these spreads? Right? All
all that is to say we're looking at tech
today very very closely whether that's
in the debt markets, [clears throat]
capital markets, equity markets. Taiwan
is coming online. TSMC is coming out
with
>> monthly sales figures today. Uh we're
looking at a rally there. Singapore
coming online as well raising its GDP
forecast to 2 to 4%. Uh, more on that in
a moment. Dollar story, euroyen's
interesting. Everyone looks at dollar
yen. Euroyen is now close to the Jan
2022.
Jan22 peak, not 2022. Jan 22, 2026 peak.
U beyond that, of course, we're back to
1991 levels, which of course predates
the the euro in some ways. Okay. Um, uh,
Pony AI is in focus today. Big move
overnight. We write is up here. uh
Golden Dragon index not really joining
the overall rally overnight, but yes,
we're looking at Pony AI today on the
back of the story with Toyota. More on
that in a moment. A50 futures are coming
online and we're looking at Dollar China
and you know, we it was just recently we
were talking about the seven handle.
We're now closer to 690 handle on this.
>> Yeah, but a POC as well starting to I re
in the ascent of the appreciation. It
was an interesting move of course with
that US Treasury story overnight. we did
see that knee-jerk reaction in the
dollar and that weakness so it did
contribute to the to the yan moves as
well but but generally in the session
today just looking at what else they're
watching as you said Pony AI Alibaba is
going to be another one to track just
because it's AAP unit has been summoned
by regulators so the concerns there uh
China bond sale and that issuance to
note as well and some uh earnings SMIC
is going to be really one to track just
given the memory chip crunch that we're
seeing it could actually end up showing
up in the numbers and also an
interesting debut that that I'm going to
be focusing on but that's Axera semi
it's raised around $400 million US in in
this IPO. So on the smaller side out of
the semis in China this year, but still
an interesting one just given they're
doing AI uh chips or inference chips or
SOC's. So another one to track as well.
>> Yep. Okay. Um let's get back to the top
story. We did see a wobble somewhat in
the US Treasury market. I think it was
three basis points and a longdated bond.
We've come back to that's come back to
normal uh shortly after. Uh the story is
really Bloomberg has learned here that
Chinese regulators have been advising
their financial institutions to rein in
holdings of US Treasury side chain
concerns. We talked about this
concentration risks and market fall.
Let's bring in Minman Low, our China
correspondent here to talk us through uh
do we know the target scale uh timing of
this this exercise?
>> We do not know the target scale, but the
timing is certainly interesting because
it's happening in recent weeks.
potentially could be a tactical move on
expectation that Kevin Walsh and his
more hawkish stance as he takes over the
Fed. Uh but we understand from sources
that the Chinese regulators have been
quietly and verbally asking some of the
top banks to reduce their holdings of US
treasuries or reduce their purchases.
And bear in mind this is not something
new, right? China has been gradually
reducing their holdings over the past
decade or so. And that's why some
analysts are saying don't read too much
into this. And we did see the knee-jerk
reaction, the yields lifting up in the
early morning US session, but later on
stabilized after Kevin has had sort of
redirected attention back to a jobs
expectations. Uh but still it does
reflect perhaps concern over market
volatility, over concentration risk,
especially with the dollar depreciating
over the course of the past year,
particularly in January after Donald
Trump said said he was comfortable with
a weaker dollar. And then to your point
B, you know, the growing fiscal risks uh
Fed rate cut trajectory as well.
>> We we mentioned Bloomberg Intelligence
in their view, but but overall what
what's the the assessment of the impact
on Chinese lenders here?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So Bloomberg intelligence
pointed out that you know if you look at
China's total treasury holdings first of
all that's close to levels we have seen
in 2008 you know and then when you look
at the big four lenders their holdings
of US uh dollar bonds is about $370
billion now which in total is just about
five over% of their bond holdings or one
and a half% of their total assets. So
when it comes to de-risisking the the
impact probably is going to be
insignificant for Chinese banks but
Bloomberg economics has a very
interesting takes take their forecast is
that China will continue to reduce its
dollar assets to 40% of what it was in
2024 by 2050 and this is reflecting the
global shifts in uh structural shifts in
the economy right we with the US uh
share of the global GDP declining with
the US role in uh crossber transaction
also declining for China as well,
especially after the tariff war. You
know, China's exports to the US have
decreased by about 20% on year last
year. So perhaps part of that long-term
strategy as well to diversify their
assets.
>> All right, great scoop from our team.
That was our China correspondent, Mim
Low there. And let's get to our other
top story now because Google's parent
company, Alphabet, of course, going on a
global bond spree and raising $20
billion to fuel the unprecedented
spending plan behind its AI push. Let's
bring in our global tech executive
editor, Peter Strom, in Hong Kong this
week. So, great to see you in person,
but good to see you.
>> Let's talk about the the investor
reaction to this cuz it's kind of
surprising. I mean, we had all the big
tech earnings and companies were kind of
punished over their capex plans. Now,
Alphabet goes into the into the debt
market and it's having a completely
different reaction.
>> Yeah, you're exactly right. It was just
last week when Alphabet came out and
they said they were going to spend $185
billion on capex this year. Bloomberg,
of course, we checked the data. We ran
the numbers. It's the largest capex
spending that anybody had ever heard in
history. It's more money than any
company has spent. That that record
lasted for 24 hours. Then it was Amazon
that came out and said they were going
to spend as much as $200 billion on
capbacks going forward. But one of the
big questions, one of the reasons their
shares were punished last week is
because investors weren't sure, are they
going to be able to get their hands on
the money? If they get the money, how
are they going to be able to spend it?
So this week, we got an answer. Alphabet
went out into the market. As you said,
they were trying to raise $15 billion
originally. Demand was so strong that
they bumped that up to $20 billion.
They're also going to issue bonds in
Switzerland and in the UK for the first
time. It's in the UK where they're going
to have these famous century bonds.
They're going to issue bonds that will
last for 100 years. This has not been
done very much before. We've seen
governments do it. Some academic
institutions, including the University
of Oxford, but when it comes to
corporate issuance, there's a lot of
concerns about this sort of thing. We
saw it with Motorola back in the 1990s
and we saw with J C Penney.
>> Yeah. And what happened to
[clears throat] those companies? I guess
like quite a big change of course in the
stories of both that speaking of easing
concerns over spending. Oracle has also
come out and said you know software uh
concerns over software spending that's
not that's not too big of an issue
>> right so or Oracle of course it's its
history is in corporate software helping
companies actually run their operations.
That's been a great business for them.
And that business corporate software has
been historically very very stable. It's
been a great business. That's why PE
companies have gotten into that business
in particular. Oracle is now also
diversifying into the data center
business. They're spending a lot of
money on capex to support open AI in
particular right now. So, they've been
punished on the corporate software side
because we've seen some of these new AI
models come out with corporate add-ons
that are very useful, including this
legal add-on from Anthropic last week.
Today, there's one in the market that'll
help you find insurance that's hitting
the insurance brokers in particular. So
there are concerns around Oracle because
of that. That's why it stock has been
down. But it's been rallying recently
partly because this Alphabet bond
fundraising seems to signal that
investors are on board with this big
buildout at least at this point. They're
willing to help the tech companies
finance this buildout. Now all those
tech companies are going to compete with
each other for the customers in the AI
space. We don't know what that demand is
going to look like, but at least it
looks like Oracle probably has a better
chance today than they did yesterday of
raising the money they need to be able
to go out and do this build up.
>> Fantastic, Peter. Nice to see you in
person.
>> Always a pleasure.
>> Fantastic. Peter Eldstrom there, of
course, our global tech executive editor
here with us in uh in Hong Kong. Okay,
this is very big news. It's one line
could have massive consequences. So,
remember Indonesia and the Msei story.
So, Footsie Russell um and this is all
we know has postponed or is postponing
its index review for Indonesia. Again,
just a caveat, we do not know why. We're
short in the details. We don't want to
speculate at this point in time, but
something to keep an eye on as we
approach the open of Indonesia in the
next hour. Watch this very closely. And
you see the chart in your screens. You
know, the the MCI story explains that
last leg down on the rightmost side. I
think we're down about still about 11
12% from from that high.
>> Yeah, certainly one to watch and as you
said that market opening at the top of
the next hour. So, we will of course be
be across that one. But coming up as
well, we've got a Monday Investman
Institute joining us to discuss market
strategy and why they think
diversification [music] is the name of
the game. And we're also counting down
to the open of trade in Shanghai,
Shenzhen, Hong Kong. This is the China
show. Futures looking like we'll have a
little bit of upside at the open. More
ahead.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Uh right, welcome back. Just more on
this breaking news line which came
through about a few I would say about a
minute back now. Uh so so Footsie
Russell has come out and said it's it's
postponing its index review for
Indonesia. Uh it was scheduled for
March. The decision now comes uh
following Indonesia's ongoing reforms.
That's according to the index compiler.
I just context right. uh separately but
related to this is Msei the other index
compiler which effectively originated
this this this this refocusing on
Indonesia and talked about hey there's
some issues around free float you have
until May to uh effectively put these
reforms in and Indonesia's come out and
said you know what we don't have to wait
for May what they've come out and said
>> they wanted to say well they said
essentially the regulators they'll be
ready by March
>> okay yeah
>> and I guess that's what you know we need
more clarity on that perhaps uh which is
why maybe that Footsie Russell is is is
coming through and saying, you know,
let's wait for things to settle and then
that um but so far two headlines
postponing the March index review and
the decision because of these ongoing uh
reforms. Okay, let's pivot away from
Southeast Asia. We'll revisit this when
the market opens up later on and we'll
see what markets make of this if any. Uh
joining us here to talk us through
what's been really a a great start to
the year. We had wobbles about two weeks
and there were record highs right now.
Asia Pacific 1%. Aiden Yao is with us
here on set. Senior Asia investment
strategist at Mundi Investment
Institute. Bull market is back. How are
you thinking about risk exposure at this
point in time?
>> Uh sure bull market is back but
volatility
remains very very high. Uh so you know
if you look at the the markets so far in
um I think there are four themes that
are currently uh impacting the market.
uh some of which are very similar to
what we had in 2025. I think last year
was very clear. You got uh tariffs, AI
and fading US exceptionalism. Some of
which have remained the same, some being
replaced and um I think one more
uncertainly has been added to the list.
So number one is geopolitics. I think
the focal point of Trump policies has
moved from tariffs to geopolitics. Um AI
remains the top of mind for investors
but I think the narratives are changing.
No longer are people just talking about
the AI bubble but some people are
actually voting with their feed. Uh and
that's why we're seeing quite a bit of a
correction and shake up in the
technology space. Um I think fitting US
exceptionalism is still live and kicking
and the momentum is actually being
accelerated by the foreign policy
choices by President Trump early part of
2026. And finally, the added theme to
the list is really the Fed uncertainty.
Uh last year we had a Fed uncertainty
when we try to figure out who is going
to succeed Jon Pal. Uh now we know who
that person is, but we don't know to
what extent his unorthodox views about
the economy and monetary policy uh are
going to land on the ground as actual
policy choices of the Federal Reserve.
So I think um uncertainties even
unknowns are arousing markets and I
think the volatilities are really
reflecting that investors are struggling
to discount this unknowns. So I think uh
volatilities uncertainties are going to
be with us for a period to come.
on the on the topic of the Fed to your
point yeah the narrative has shifted
because last year you were not only just
trying to figure out who would be taking
JPAL's position but but also trying to
understand how independent the Fed would
be as well what kind of scenarios are
you mapping out now
>> so to me I think still the the evolution
of the economy matters more about the
Fed policies than the political pressure
and the personnel changes uh we have to
understand that the Fed makes a decision
decision democratically. There are 12
voting members sitting on the committee.
Um, and it requires a simple majority to
really realize some of these
institutional reforms that Kevin Walsh
has been talking about as well as the
interest rate decisions and the monetary
policy balance sheet uh policies as
well. So I think uh really it comes down
to um how can Kevin Walsh really
convince his peers on the committee to
be more aligned with his currently
unauthorized views about the economy and
monetary policy. So there's going to be
a lot of convincing work on his part.
Mhm.
>> Markets deal in probabilities.
>> Uh probability that rates are higher
than lower
>> in the second half of this year when the
new Fed chair comes in on the balance
sheet too which is interesting. Right.
Sure. Stepping back looking at it right.
>> I think you got to look at a different
part of the curve differently. Uh I
think uh on the front end uh I mean
market is pricing in two rate cards. Um
and that's exactly what we are looking
at uh uh for the policy rate decision
for this year. So I don't think that
it's going to be too much of a change.
Obviously there's going to be a lot of
volatilities uh coming from rhetoric
changes and uh um you know even um
Trump's u you know talking could arouse
the market. I think at the longer end of
the curve uh the fiscal concerns remains
uh very pertinent um and we have um uh
curve steepening trade as one of our um
you know uh focal point for as
allocation this year.
>> You mentioned the the changing narrative
around AI and and concerns about a
bubble. What do you make then of of
Alphabet's debt issuance overnight and
just the sheer amount of investor
demand?
So in so far as this debate about AI
bubble we we really sort of look at uh
sort of two dimensions on the very macro
sort of policy basis we don't think AI
is a bubble you know if this things are
truly transformative and revolutionary
there's a lot of spending and investment
we need to do to unlock its uh you know
potential uh if you look at the US which
is the most aggressive country in
developing AI AI capex at relative GDPs
is still less than 1%. And if you
compare that to other revolutionary
technologies that we have seen over the
past uh century um the peak level of a
capex to GDP is normally between 2 to
5%. Right now AI is less than 1%. So I
think to unlock AI's revolutionary
productivity potential we we still have
a long way to go. So as overall
transformative technology we don't think
AI is a bubble but u when it comes to
the conduit of AI in the capital market
the very narrow expensive uh investment
case centered on those seven stocks we
do think there are signs of a force and
that's why uh we recommend investor to
take a more selective and diversified
approach
>> okay so selective where do they refocus
their uh efforts and uh energy That's
true. [laughter]
>> So there are two ways I think you can
build a more diversified and selective
portfolio around AI. One is that we know
the world average portfolio has been
very lopsided towards the US AI but
China and the US are actually competing
neck to neck in this race for AI
supremacy. The context is too close to
call. So we've been recommending our
clients to build a more balanced
approach between China tech and US tech.
The second way to do it is to think
about uh the entire AI ecosystem. If
this thing is truly transformative and
revolutionary, surely is not going to
impact just those seven companies.
That's right. Right. As the technology
matures and become more integrated into
the economy and society, the whole
investment landscape is going to borden
dramatically. So if you think that the
uh the infrastructure the underlying
technology layer of AI supply chain is
already richly priced you can look for
opportunities at upstream utility energy
and downstream with applications. So
there's plenty of uh playfield to fish.
Aiden, stay with us because we're going
to come back to you at the open of the
China markets just in a few moments. But
that's Aiden Yao there, senior
investment strategist for Asia at Amundi
Investment Institute. And just taking a
quick look at where we're setting up for
the open today. I think it's going to be
really interesting to watch just on the
tech theme because we've had a number of
different uh analysts initiating
coverage of of AI stocks, chip stocks in
China, plus also of course tracking
what's happening with Yuan there. You
can see the reference rate at the bottom
of your screen. But more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
We are 4 minutes away from the open this
morning and just taking a look at some
of the movers. So, Pony AI is one we're
tracking closely. We saw the move
already in ADRs overnight. So, this is
not really surprising, but essentially
uh they've started commercial production
of a driverless vehicle in partnership
with Toyota and that's going to help
them ramp up their their fleet
essentially by the end of the year. Also
taking a look at Pony uh PopMart rather
because we've got some sales figures for
the Monsters uh exceeding
>> 100 million.
>> Yeah,
>> 100 million in terms of the Monster
sales. They came out with that last uh
overnight across IPS and product
categories north of 400 million units.
It is of course backward looking but it
just gives you an indication of how how
far the story has has run so far.
>> Yes. Yeah. To be honest, I actually had
to look up what the monsters were. I
[music] just don't track PopMart. I'm
sorry.
>> Oh, [laughter] all you have to look is
the the silver volatility chart. That's
a monster for you. Anyway, the open is
coming up next. There you go. This is
the China show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Counting down to the open markets.
Uh a couple of things. The equity market
rally uh is extending into the Asia
Pacific. We're [music] also looking at
the currency which is now obviously much
closer to the 690 handle than than the
seven handle. Uh apart from that uh
there's this [music] big credit story
around the AI boom the capex spend and
whether or not that's actually a leading
indicator that you can use for [music]
going along some of these Korean names
of course where some of that spending
goes of course as it pertains to the AI
[music] story in the US is where I was
going with that.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. No, it has been really interesting
because actually when we had those capex
[music] plans announced there was a lot
of concern around the the health of that
sort of spending and actually it was a
point of weakness for for the market.
Yes. in the equity markets. Of course,
it's been very different story in the
credit market, but [music] lots of
questions as well. What does that mean
for issuance? What does that mean for
spreads as well uh this year, but let's
also take a look at at the the direction
of trading so far for mainland China
today? Because you said around the
dollar and and what the yuan's doing
because we have seen that that yuan
appreciation actually after we had that
Bloomberg scoop, we saw some some dollar
weakness essentially. But what we're
hearing from sources is that China is
urging banks to curb their US treasuries
exposure. And so off that we've seen
concerns really around concentration
risks, market volatility. As we
discussed with Mim though, I think uh
Bloomberg Intelligence had a very
interesting note on it. Just looking at
who's the most affected from this and
and out of the lenders in aggregate,
dollar denominated bonds make up a
fairly small part of their debt
holdings, even less of their assets. But
Bank of China is the one that is seen as
the most exposed out of these names. We
can also take a look at how Bank of
China is fairing so far today, but again
unchanged so far. So maybe that also
just tells you the market reaction.
Let's take a look though at Hong Kong uh
with the start of trade here today as
well because we mentioned or you
mentioned Alibaba earlier about the AAP
unit being summoned. So this is its maps
and local services unit. Uh there are
concerns around how it's managing its
partner relationships, emergency
situations over fair cutting as well. Uh
but Alibaba actually managing to post
some gains today. It is sort of a a
techled rally in the session across the
board though. Uh also taking a look, we
do have an IPO today. We can just check
if we're starting to see pricing on
that, which we are. Uh this is Axera
here, uh which is moving higher
essentially in its trading debut this
morning. But we are just watching it
there. You could see there at the bottom
of the screen a little bit higher, but
but mainly this is a company that
focuses on AI inference SOC's or system
on chips. Uh and they have raised around
400 million in their in their IPO. So
you're seeing that trading debut there.
One to track. It is a company that sort
of positions itself as a tier 2 supplier
to the automotive market. So, we can
stick on that autos theme. Take a look
at some of the auto companies in China
because we had an interesting uh
commentary coming out yesterday uh from
the vice minister of commerce saying
that they want to essentially improve or
boost auto sales in 2026. Some mixed
reaction there. Still in the auto space,
but but uh getting a little bit more
futuristic, I guess, because Pony AI has
been another story to track. and we're
watching that stock really surging at
the open here. But also in line with
what we had with ADRs and and the story
here is that they're teaming up with
Toyota. They're ramping up their
self-driving vehicle model and that is
expected to boost their overall fleet
size by the end of the year. And then
lastly as well, just keeping that AI
theme in check because we've got some uh
analysts essentially JP Morgan has
initiated coverage of Miniax ZAI.
They're very bullish on these names and
you're seeing that sort of consequential
market reaction today. Their price
target for ZAI is $400 Hong Kong dollars
a piece. Miniax at 700 Hong Kong dollars
a piece. Also watching some other names
here. Meta X Shanghai Burean Technology.
That's more in the semis as well, but
more coverage essentially being
instigated.
>> Well, 11 12%. Didn't we see a massive
move on that already? Uh I'm just
looking at my screen. Yeah, it was 36%
to the upside. Uh yes and I think you
know this really underscores this next
graphic that's going to come up right so
markets have been parsing they've been
pulling away from some of the platform
the usual platform names into these new
AI plays and that's perhaps why you're
getting this underperformance in Chinese
markets right so this is actually
measured from the start of 4Q last year
>> so we'll talk more about Korea in a
moment but yeah it's it's really
underperformed uh compared to the rest
of the peers u how do we how do you look
at this right if you're sitting on a
portfolio of mostly Chinese exposure
still With us is Aden Yao, senior Asia
investment strategist.
>> Uh among the investment institute,
>> big winners in Asia, big bright spots.
You have Japan, we talked about that.
There's Korea
>> and then there was China past tense, but
obviously there's still some value
there. But how do you look at that?
>> So, uh Asia, we we like Asia. Uh early
on we talked about that we we like
emerging market and you cannot like
emerging market without uh liking Asia
because Asia is such a big part of that.
uh we think that Asia is going to be a
beneficiary from the global
diversification away from uh US dollar
denominated assets. Uh Asia should
benefit from a structural weakness of US
dollar as well. Um I also look at the
the granular views across the uh Asia
market. Um and I think Asia really is at
a crossroad of three big thematics.
Number one is AI. Take a look at the
best performing sectors in mainland
China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Japan
over the past 12 months without any
exception. They are all AI related. I
think AI uh Asia plays a very important
role in the global AI ecosystem. So if
you worried about valuations of Mac 7, I
think Asia actually offers a lot of
diversification opportunities. Secondly,
we talked about this during the break.
Um there's a corporate reform story um
in many markets. uh Korea uh Japan have
benefited from that uh uh over the last
couple of years. Singapore last year
performed pretty well on the back of
that corporate reform narrative as well.
And in China uh in uh November 2024, uh
policy makers actually initiated a
number of uh regulatory changes to
increase shareholder returns as well.
And we know that high dividend paying
stocks have performed pretty well in
recent years. And the third and the
final theme is really improving
fundamentals on the cyclical front
that's really Japan right the reflation
and now with a uh potential greater
fiscal push coming through I think that
reflation story is going to continue to
benefit the equity market and longer
term we like India we like Vietnam uh
amidst the changing world orders in both
economics and geopolitics
>> the the Japan equity story I think we
were mentioning during the break is the
election makes that even clearer.
>> That's right.
>> Uh Korea has been clear because there's
there's a battery store, there's a
memory story, and there's a value up
program. The China story is still
uncertain to some people. Right. So we
rerated from a bare market. There people
increasing their allocations.
>> The earnings story though, what's your
take on that? Are you convinced by these
projections you're seeing on EPS? Uh
that's the fundamental story you alluded
to just now.
>> Sure. I think uh there are a lot of
skepticism still uh about China. I think
very few people are not talking about
China being uninvestable. But if you
look at the long only positioning on
China, they're still underweight. And I
often get asked by global investors uh
how to reconcile the weak economy and
the strong equity market. Um I think I
think really the the the key to answer
that question is to realize that the
market and the economy are actually
trading on two very different
narratives. the economy is held back by
what we call old China the real estate
related supply chains even though it's a
smaller part of GDP contribution since
2021 but because households uh uh
majority of wealths are tied up with
real estate uh if you don't have a clear
bottoming of a property prices uh the
shock to uh balance sheet to confidence
to actual spending is going to continue
to hold back the real economy but if you
look at the market side It's been
completely powered by new China, the
so-called new productive force, whether
that's AI, whether that's technology,
innovative drugs, new consumption,
material, labu, right? New consumption
scheme. Um, and the there are a lot of
uh idle uh liquidities sitting on the
sideline. You know, households have
about 165 trillion RV worth of deposit
that can be plowed uh to use in the
equity market because households have a
Tina problem. there's no alternative in
China outside of equity. And I would
also argue that since September 2024,
the policy supports for equity market
have been a lot more forceful than those
for the real economy. So we don't think
the Chinese narrative has changed. But
clearly we have seen a lot of reerating.
So earnings to some extent need to catch
up to really justify the continued rally
and that really is the uncertainty. We
need to monitor the earning delivery
going forward.
>> Aiden, great to have you with us this
morning. That was Aiden Yao there,
senior investment strategist for Asia at
Amandi Investment Institute. And let's
get more on on the outlook for Chinese
equities now and bring in our Asia
equities reporter Winnie Shu joining us
also in Hong Kong today. And Winnie, I
was just watching you nodding there as
well to to what Aiden was saying. So, of
course, sort of the biggest story for
China equities is that tech rally losing
momentum, but but what are you hearing
about what Aiden just said and and the
outlook as well?
>> Yeah, exactly. It it is sounding like
you know that we are seeing that shift
in terms of kind of preference within
Asia right there is that momentum
building up in Japan with the election
and also South Korea and Taiwan still
gaining with the the chip momentum but
on the other hand China's uh tech stocks
losing a bit of steam. We talked about
this memory crunch and actually yes
we've heard and read some reports about
how some of these um PC companies are
actually considering using more Chinese
memory chip but actually uh these these
companies are not really listed in China
just yet. So uh the Chinese equity
market not really benefiting from what
we're seeing in the memory crunch just
yet. But on the other hand, there is
that global volatility in tech and
domestically. You don't have too much
catalyst whether it's the development in
AI which we were expecting some kind of
deepseek um new model by Luna New Year
but that's not happening yet and also
lack of government stimulus and um lack
of kind of that earnings um coming
through just yet. That's also weighing
on the Chinese tech stocks. So onshore
tech um down about 6% so far since that
January peak and HStech in that bare
market and allocation shifting towards
more consumer names like you just
mentioned because of that expectation
for more spending. So, retail picking
up, restaurants, airlines,
>> um SMIC is reporting today, uh I'm going
somewhere with this. Um and our our
folks uh are talking about how to your
point, right, it's the memory chip
shortages that are perhaps the key issue
there. Talk a little bit more about how
that is impacting the Chinese market.
Yeah. So, um, as I mentioned kind of
because these big names are not really
listed. So, we don't see that being
positively reflected uh in the Chinese
equity market just yet. But, um, because
of those reports that we're hearing that
that memory crunch can potentially
benefit Chinese uh, chip makers uh,
memory socks that uh, sorry, chip memory
chip makers. So if these were if we see
these IPOs coming through that might
actually be more positive for these
names as well.
>> Okay. Uh Winnie Shu there of course our
Asia equities reporter. Um from one chip
story to another and the stunning $1.7
trillion rally in the Cosby. We just
showed you a graphic there. 54% just
from the start of 4Q last year. total
return has actually not been enough to
close this Korea discount, this
valuation gap it's had for many years
with global peers. Uh for more on the
persistent Korea discount story, let's
bring in Si Cha, our Asia equities
reporter as well. So what what what's
happening here, Sami?
>> Yeah, so Korea discount is that
perennial markdown of Korean stock
valuation, right? And all this ties back
to the structure of companies there um
because there's huge number of um
companies that are familyun cold charts
in Korea. And so these companies
actually have this incentive for
instance when you're uh about to you
know pass pass on your company to your
kids uh the inheritance tax is measured
uh by its market share. So then you know
they have the incentive to actually kind
of even engineer uh lower valuation for
their shares right. So they're trying to
uh there's so many of these reforms that
needs to be done to actually really um
rescue these Korea discount that's
inherent in in this market. And so by
looking at on paper uh the book value
has increased. It's now at 1.7 times.
That's almost on par with China's 1.8
and Japan's 1.9, right? But again u
going back to u a year ago it was below
one. So it's definitely narrowed that
gap. But again when you're looking at
the profits uh the Cosby members are now
um about to have double uh of their
earnings growth you know that compared
to 24% for China or or 14% for for Japan
if you factor in these uh profits it is
still called a discount here.
>> That is nuts.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
Uh let's talk let's also talk about
because uh Korea moving away from equity
markets but very uh very big crypto
trading population as well but we know
that that a certain exchange is being
looked into. What what exactly has
happened?
>> Yeah. So I was actually on a weekend
shift and I wrote the story as well. But
basically what happened was that just
like a clerical error, you know, within
a crypto exchange. Um instead of
inputting 62 uh 620,0001
Korean one, uh the employee wrote
620,000
Bitcoin. And so that resulted in sending
40 billion worth of Bitcoin to its
users, you know, in a promotional event
that was supposed to give $1 or $2 as a
thank you kind of message. So that's
actually triggered a massive panic
selling and uh it's dropped 18% of the
Bitcoin within the exchange uh in in
that period of time. So now regulars are
thinking, is this really just an error
or is this like a one-off thing? because
this is called a ghost bitcoin right
now. And so they're looking into this
whole ledger uh transactions and whether
this can really be done, you know, on
those exchanges. Yeah. And we're not
just talking about an unknown exchange.
We're talking about Bitum here, which as
I understand is is the second largest
exchange by trading volume in Korea. So
it's actually quite a significant name
to have that sort of fat
>> fat finger name too. I was about to say
[laughter] I mean the if you parse the
spelling of the nameact that was on
purpose of course
>> built in built in issues but anyway all
right that was Asia equities reporter
Sang Cha there and uh going to have more
in the next hour on the strains for
semiconductors we were just discussing
there as well that global AI
infrastructure accelerating that
buildout we've got Mir asset global
investment joining us with their demand
outlook more ahead this is Bloomberg
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show this morning and here are some of
the big corporate stories that we're
tracking. A China's transport regulator
has summoned Alibaba's AAP unit for
talks, citing weak oversight of partner
ride hailing platforms. fair cutting and
poor handling of emergencies. [music] In
a statement, the regulator also called
on the company to honor commitments to
cut commission fees. AAP says it will
fully [music] comply with the demands,
address shortcomings, and operate in
accordance with the law.
Chinese copper buyers are extending
their break over the Luna New Year as
nearrecord [music] prices chill
industrial demand for the metal. One
Shanghai based supplier told Bloomberg
the price rally [music] has reduced
order books for copper rod and pipe
producers. Extended shutdowns over the
holiday period are likely to put a
bigger dent in the [music] market's
momentum.
>> Let's stay on the commodities theme
here. So you have the international
council on mining and metals. Uh well
saying African countries could be making
a mistake if they embrace resource
nationalism. Uh the council president
also told us Chinese influence could
help support the potential growth of
Africa's mining industry.
The US and China and Europe as a third
player offer really important
opportunities for the continent to
choose which they want to work with
without necessarily that having to be
mutually exclusive. So you can work with
the US and the EU and China in different
ways. And the bargaining position for
African governments has arguably never
been greater because now you have a
choice of counterparties. Previously
when the US and the EU were not as
present on the continent, you really
only had China to work with. But now you
can play China off the US off the EU.
And we saw from the Germans a very clear
statement that said after decades of
talking and sending delegations, we're
sending engineers and we're sending
capital. Now that is what African
governments have been wanting for a long
time, saying enough talk. show us what
you're really willing to do to support
the sector. And I would say that today's
the most optimistic I've ever felt about
African mining.
>> Where does the leverage sit though? Is
it on some of these bigger economies? Is
it on the producers? Is it on the
corporates?
>> Well, the leverage sits underground.
Ultimately, the resource base and how
rich it is in the continent is our main
aspect that we can be using to get the
best deals for for Africa. Now that
leverage is shared between companies who
may hold the rights to minerals or
certainly hold the the technical
expertise and governments who are the
main interlocutors with their
counterparties in the United States. Now
what we're and and the EU for example.
Now what we are seeing is a better level
of governmenttogovernment collaboration
on the continent than we've ever seen
before. This year for the first time I
have seen a maturing of the conversation
on beneficiation. Up until now,
basically every African government has
said we want everything from mining to
refining to smelting to final production
in our own boundaries. Finally, people
have realized that's not practical. And
so, we're starting to talk about, well,
if ref if mining happens here, can
refining happen in in a neighboring
country and can final assembly happen in
a third country. That's really positive
because that's a much more sustainable
way to go than everyone insisting on
having all the value chain in their
country.
>> But that still doesn't mean resource
nationalism will go away. not just on
the continent but globally. I mean even
in the US we're seeing President Trump
trying to do the same. I mean where
where does that fit into this dialogue?
>> That is the big risk especially on
something like gold where people are
seeing skyhigh prices and saying oh gosh
maybe this asset needs to sit all in
government hands and maybe we need to
renegotiate contracts. It would be a
huge mistake, a huge own goal on the
part of countries on the continent if
they were to try and use this moment to
radically reshape the sector by tearing
up contracts, by arbitrary tax demands,
by changing the way agreements have been
set up because that will be the signal
to international investors that risk is
too high and they will put their money
elsewhere. So, I really would guard
against anybody thinking that this is
the moment to arbitrarily change. It
doesn't mean that you can't have a
grown-up discussion about the fairest
way to share the profits, but it does
mean you've got to be very cleareyed
that the excitement we're seeing around
critical minerals today will not
automatically translate to dollars in
your country unless the environment is
conducive for it.
>> That was the International Mining and
Metals Council president speaking to
Bloomberg's Jennifer Sabazard. And a
reminder of our new online feature,
that's [music] the Bloomberg video hub.
Subscribers can explore live streaming,
news, and interviews all on our
>> all of our [laughter]
all of our Bloomberg TV shows, including
the China Show. Probably don't watch
this moment, but uh you got reporter,
analyst, documentaries, lot more. You
can check it out at
bloomberg.com/videos.
[music] This is Bloomberug.
[music]
Here are some of the major stories that
we're following from around the world
this morning. And a White House official
says the exact date in April for
President Trump to meet with Chinese
leader Xi Jinping [music] has not yet
been finalized. That's after Politico
reported Trump would head to [music]
Beijing to meet Shei in the first week
of April. The report says the two
leaders could potentially [music] meet
four times this year as their trade
truce holds.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio has
criticized the 20-year [music] prison
sentence for former Hong Kong media
mogul Jimmy Lie. Rubio described the
court decision as unjust and tragic and
called for Hong Kong to grant Lie
humanitarian parole. The 78-year-old was
convicted of multiple breaches of the
city's Beijing imposed security laws as
well as British colonial era sedition
legislation.
>> Uh okay, just to say that uh Hong Kong
chief executive John Lee the briefing is
starting now. Number one. Number two is
earlier in the hour, China issuing this
white paper on Hong Kong safeguarding
national security on that story that Bel
just mentioned there supporting China
supports Hong Kong in punishing acts
endangering security. That's according
to Shin Nohan News. Uh, Indonesia is a
market to watch obviously on the back of
the Footsie story and the update
postponing that index review in March.
That market opens up in a couple of
minutes. The other thing we want to talk
about this massive rally that's taking
place across the region. The dollar is
substantially weaker from this time in
the last hour coming up on your [music]
screens. Uh, you do see that massive dip
in the Bloomberg dollar index which is
actually consequential when you look at
the MCI [music] Asia Pacific which is
actually also catching a very very
strong bid.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Taking a
look at how the Hangen is fairing half
an hour into the session. It's really a
risk on sentiment today and and I mean
expressing what we had already in Wall
Street overnight. We had that massive
corporate debt issuance from Alphabet
and and just the amount of investor
demand I think soothing some fears
because what we [music] had in the big
tech earnings last week was concerns
around capex but partly was driving that
was also the concerns there wouldn't
actually be enough demand and that sort
of side of the equation has been
answered overnight as well
>> in the bond markets right and and the
appetite and you know given where
spreads are. Uh but yeah, it's
interesting dynamic, right, that they're
being punished for a larger capex number
which they were effectively
blessed with last year in terms of the
market reaction, but it's that's gone
the opposite way. Anyway, uh that's just
to say, of course, it's interesting when
you look across the capital structure,
which we'll get into in a moment uh with
our next guest. U very quickly though,
there's a rally taking place across
these markets. It was a weak dollar. It
is even more so as we speak from the
last hour. So, we're now at a record
high on Asia-Pacific. Japan continues
its massive run. We closed higher, I
think over 3% on the Nicay. We're
tacking on a further 2 and a half%
there. Taiwan getting a massive upgrade
from BA. Uh bumping up growth forecasts
from 4 and a half to get this 8%. 8%
growth. And just just to say as well,
we're getting the monthly sales numbers
coming through out of TSMC later today.
Uh EMFX EM markets are doing well. We
talked about Korea. Manila is one of the
leading uh ones across Southeast Asia.
As we can see, the dollar is weaker. We
now have a 690 handle on dollar China
offshore. Uh we're getting close on
dollar onshore on that. Dollar is
weaker. Um as we speak u and we're also
looking at uh the Indonesian markets
coming online, opening little changed.
So in the last hour we heard from
Footsie Russell. They're looking to uh
revisit this March index review. We've
just heard via text, I know who text
these days, but via text from the
Indonesian stock exchange um how they're
saying that Footsie supports the action
plan being implemented by authorities.
We talked to this earlier on. Uh May was
the deadline given from the other index
compiler, MSEI, Indonesian regulators
have said, you know what, we'll we'll
look at March. We'll do it earlier. Um
Footsie did not express any concern.
This is important on country
classification, right? The risk was a
downgrade to frontier markets. That is
not the case according to the in
according to the exchange based on their
conversations with uh with the index
compiler Footsie Footsie Russell.
>> Yeah. And I think just to that point
around investor concern, I mean, you're
not really seeing expressed so far in in
equities because you got the the
benchmark there fairly flat actually at
the start of trade. Uh let's also get to
the other big story that we had
overnight which we actually haven't
mentioned yet but but China urging its
banks to to curb their treasuries
exposure and this was a big Bloomberg
scoop we had yesterday. We did see that
dollar reaction overnight as well
because it was that story around dollar
weakness. We've seen the yuan stronger
off the back but let's get more on it
now what it means as well for for the
banks in question what it means for
their for their books. But bringing in
Monica Shia she's founder and CIO at
credit asset manager Trietta Capital. So
let's uh let's take a look here. I mean
what what impact do you see this having
on treasuries at least in the shorter
term if anything?
>> So I think what we saw yesterday was in
the short term uh for for a few minutes
it spiked in terms of the yield in
Treasury but then it sort of came back
down and um came back to mean reversion.
Um I think that the reality is that all
of us have been aware that this has been
an uh a gradual sort of uh redu
reduction of China interest in US
treasury. But um I guess a couple
points. One is that this uh guidance
that has made been made more explicit on
something they were already doing um is
actually uh only relating to banks as it
has been announced obviously that on the
state side they also have been reducing
but they haven't made it explicit. Uh
second point is that uh you know we did
wonder why this timing and you know it's
just my personal guess that you know it
could be that this is you know
negotiation tactic as well because this
is a few days after uh Trump
administration sort of implied that they
or at least signal that they might be
selling a lot more arms to Taiwan like
adding another 20 billion to the 11
billion earlier. it also is you know
made to be uh you know known ahead of uh
the April meeting. Um then my you know I
and I guess the last point being that uh
you know maybe this is also a signal
from uh China basically uh you know
saying to the world look I think that we
need to consider what should be um you
know the the range of safe haven
instruments that we should um look into
from now because of various uh reasons
but one of them being that um I think
central banks will um look at uh the the
risks of unilateral sanction or
expropriation. Um and so maybe it is
fitting for everyone to consider sort of
something like gold or other um
sovereign bonds over US and and I think
that that uh China does want to uh
present some kind of a challenge to the
dollar as uh I mean it will continue I
think to be a reserve currency but at
least chip away at that percentage. How
much of it is I'm curious the just a
simple riskmanagement exercise right you
know or you know say it another way a
call in per possibly higher yields uh
which obviously would hit the balance
sheet of banks in in that in that event
around the Fed conversation of course
>> you know I mean it's interesting because
one of the points cited is um volatility
and concentration now the concentration
risk you know they could actually be as
concerned about uh CGB so I think that
um this um you know I I would say that
uh most people would think it's at least
tinged with uh the political
ramifications.
>> Okay. Uh talk to us about JGBs because
that's also another issue here. And does
that have anything to do with what we're
talking about? Why why do you think we
need to be watching the JGB market very
closely? So for us JGB I think is one of
the most topical themes uh for me this
year in terms of potential sort of tail
risk contagion risk correlation with the
rest of the world assets as we've seen
in a few bouts now when um you have had
spikes in the uh JGB uh you do see some
riskoff correlation with all the risk
assets including including stuff like
Bitcoin um and AI related um um assets
uh as well as um you know earlier when
JGB suddenly spiked you know 40 uh bips
and especially in the 20-year um you
know it did uh pull credit spreads so I
think that JGB is important um in terms
of also as a carry trade and that
potential unwind plus you know the fact
that at one point you're going to look
at the relative value we're not entirely
there but I think we're going to get to
the point where you're looking at the
relative net rate versus uh you know the
US net rate and the question will be are
the domestics and at what point the
domestics will um you know reallocate
away from dollar assets into the
domestic
>> net rate meaning real rates
>> real rates
>> real rates okay we're quite far from
that though
>> we're far at the moment because we're
looking at real but yeah
>> that's right okay just to clarify that
point
>> what then do you think for for for
treasuries I mean do do you change your
your the outlook at all is based on on
Kevin Walsh's I mean expected
appointment I guess you could say now
>> you know it's interesting because I was
at a um you know sort of a a round table
um event last night and one of the
points that we were discussing is that
it's not a zero probability that Trump
could surprise everybody again and
appoint somebody else. So I think that
um there's a lot of sort of question
marks around this but um you know Kevin
uh Worsh I you know first of all we
don't really know what um his
positioning might be because I we do
consider him more of a political animal
and uh secondly you know to the extent
he sounded a little bit more hawkish
about reduction of balance sheet um
Bessant has already come out to comment
that this would take you know probably
up to a year. So I think all of these
take time. Um you know the most topical
around Kevin Walsh is um a that you know
he's talked about um the um the the the
balance sheet but b is actually
potential coordination between Treasury
and Fed and then that would then again
bring back question marks about um
independence.
the and tying the back to the treasury
market to your point right where you
look at credit spreads and they're at I
don't know depends on where you look
2007 lows on IG for example and there's
really this window when you look at the
AI spend and how they're going to fund
that there's a window to be had right
now to just tap the markets
>> why aren't spreads not not blowing out
why aren't they widening given all the
supply that's coming and how are you
thinking about this from a credit
perspective in your world of course
>> so I mean credit spreads is actually
overall in IG been relatively tame
although still in the tight end. Um but
I would say that first you know the the
guys who've come out to do massive scale
um you know Meta, Oracle, Google I mean
these are still guys who are issuing uh
from the position of bargaining power
because they still have net cash. So
you're still talking uh about you know
companies where people can feel
relatively you know safe and you can
argue about relative value but they can
come out to do massive issuances and as
you pointed out you know Google last
night was still multiple times overs
subscribed. That said most of these guys
straight out of the gate it's not like
they are performing. You know Google
came out and you know was minus one bit.
It's not like a huge win. So I think
that um the other point I would make is
that um AI uh related um in the um
indices still you know sort of
singledigit representation. So there is
still room for uh you know the real
monies of the world to uh to take these
and diversify in their pot. Okay. Do you
worry at all about any sort of AI
valuation uh correction though and then
that ripple effect it could have because
even right now yeah it's it's it's low
that that sort of concentration but it
is expected to maybe make up around up
to say 20% of of of the overall
corporate uh IG space. Yeah, I mean as
with everything is supply and demand. At
some point this is going to be uh less
rare. for example um you know I think
we've seen that um impact for example in
uh Asia because SoftBank has you know
really been underperforming across the
curve and has um you know struggled to
kind of come back even on risk on days
um back to at least it struggled to go
back to the the highs and so I think we
are seeing some of that because soft
bank had issued like so much uh so I
think eventually we're going to get
there like with everything. Uh we're
just we're just not entirely there yet.
And I think it's smart of these uh
hyperscalers to frontload right now.
>> What about in more in the I guess exotic
strategies we've seen as well in credit
markets. What are you seeing there?
>> Well, so I think uh when you know we're
on the topic of uh AI related software,
these type of names. Um, you know, while
in the investment grade world in the
public bond space, we're not seeing like
a a huge uh contagion impact um of
widening yet um and and books are overs
subscribed. We're seeing a different
picture in the other part of the capital
structure which is uh lever levered
loans. And in leverage loans um up to
about 16% of that universe is um you
know this type of related um uh debt and
these are averaging more like single B's
and they're highly levered and then
there are a lot more question marks
which you are seeing that um expressed
through the market widening there. So on
the leverage loan side um it it's a
struggle to find a footing. So if that's
not the place to be, what's the overall
advice for credit strategy?
>> Um so you know for us I think that uh we
are always keeping one eye on um the uh
JGB as I said for contagion impact. Uh
but overall we are still cautious on um
the uh longerdated on duration. We're
more cautious. Uh we're still happy to
take carry in uh the shorterdated uh
high yield side. Um and I think in
investment grade we're happy to trade
the range. I think credit spreads right
now every uh bout of widening we see
some kind of a rebound uh alongside you
know general sentiment. So that's still
relatively healthy. Um we don't have in
credit markets any real sign of a
liquidity crunch yet. So if anything
it's really the the liquidity
availability that's keeping all of this
still going. um you know dollar uh
bearishness to be honest it actually
helps generally EM markets so it's not a
bad thing for um EM credit
>> Monica I think we covered the entire
capital structure [laughter]
>> we did
>> yeah even into up and up the curve and
back Monica thank you so much Monica
yeah fantastic there founder and CIO at
Triata Capital coming up here on the
China shub of speaking of AI I think
it's still a topic of conversation we'll
get into demand is surging supply chain
and geopol Political pressures are
tightening the squeeze on semis and of
course mire asset runs an actively
managed ETF around global AI supply
chain. More on that in a moment with
Edwin Chad at those times [music] on
your screens. This is the China show.
[music]
The election is the internal affair of
Japan, but this election reflected some
deep-seated and structural issues as
well as certain emerging views, trends,
and developments which deserve serious
examination by people with insights in
Japan and the international community.
The lessons of history are still fresh
in memory and should not be left behind.
We urge those running the Japanese
government to take seriously rather than
brush aside the concerns of the
international [music]
community.
That was the Chinese foreign ministry
reacting to the election victory in
Japan that we were talking about
yesterday. We're still feeling that in
markets. In fact, when you look at
equity markets in Japan tonight,
Takahuchi's landslide election victory.
The result may present of course Chinese
President Xi Jinping with a dilemma
whether or not to engage with one of
Washington's top allies in Asia as
tensions simmer of course over those
comments a few months back uh on Taiwan.
Right. Let's talk about this and really
how this impacts relations and the
outlook moving forward. Joining us here
on set, Nectargon, our China economics
and government reporter is with us. So
tell us more about uh nectar that
response we just heard uh to that
election victory. What stood out to you?
>> All right, David. So so far we've seen
Chinese officials showing very little
sign of budging. Right. Just
[clears throat] now we saw um the video
from yesterday's foreign ministry
pressor where a spokesperson actually
said that China's policy towards Japan
is not going to be changed because of
one single election. And you know the
spokesperson also renewed the call uh
for Takahuchi to retract her comments uh
over Taiwan and warned Japan against
returning to a path of you know
militarism because there has been a lot
of concern among Chinese analysts that
you know with this historic wing um
Teshi can be further emboldened and with
a twoth3 majority in the parliament like
she could potentially you know push
forward um the reform of Japan's
pacifist constitution which was imposed
by the US after World War II. So there's
a lot of concern there, but at the same
time, we're also seeing a lot of
influential Chinese analysts um sort of
pointing to this potential shift of
geopolitical alignment here because over
the past weeks, we've seen a lot of
Western leaders, you know, visiting
Beijing trying to men ties to hatch
against the US. So the analysts were
pointing out that you know, Japan would
be kind of isolated if it deter it
determined to continue to worsen
relations with China when, you know, the
rest of the world, especially a lot of
close US allies are trying to men ties
with Beijing. So it's a strong stance
then that Beijing's taking but but why
have they adopted it and also why have
they maintained it then?
>> Right. That's a great question because
you know we know that China uh China's
relations with Japan have been rocky you
know for for over the years but this
time is different because China wants to
draw a red line uh here over the Taiwan
issue which is you know for Beijing the
reddest of all red lines out there and
you know China has been worried about
Taki even before she came to office
because she was friendly to Taiwan you
know she's been there she's been talking
Taiwanese politicians so and the fact
that she made these comments so early in
his tenure is really like concerning
Beijing so Beijing wants to um sort of
set a draw the line right there. But
more importantly, it's also a warning to
other countries in the region and around
the world that they shouldn't do
anything or say anything that Beijing
founds unacceptable over Taiwan.
>> So how might this play out in the coming
weeks and months then?
>> That's really open question, David. I
think um you know for now Beijing is
really demanding well for months Beijing
has been demanding that you know Takahi
has to withdraw withdraw her comments
over Taiwan and that's just politically
impossible for her in Japan. So you know
they're really at a stalemate here but
at the same time um this year there are
opportunities for the both sides to come
together to re-engage if they wish to.
For example we have the big apat summing
uh coming up in November which will
happen in Shenzhen and before that you
know there will be a lot of meetings the
minister's meetings uh from finance to
trade to foreign ministry you know so
there are a lot of opportunities if the
two side decide to re-engage. Yeah, I
guess just wait and see what happens at
those lower level meetings then over the
coming months.
>> Exactly.
>> Great Nectar Nectar to have you with us
this morning. That was our economy and
government reporter Nectar Gan there.
And just a quick look at markets as we
head into break this morning, but it is
really gains across the board that we're
seeing here. So the broader index up
1.2%. Lots of optimism translating from
the Wall Street [music] session. More
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Right, welcome back. So this low rates
environment is [music]
uh showing up in China that is is
showing up in interesting ways here. So
this interbank borrowing spree, right?
Check out the daily volume of uh
contracts, overnight repo contracts
rising. This is as of Friday here.
Record 8.2 trillion. That's rem. So
quite a bit of activity taking place
because of the macro conditions. U Iris
Oang, our FX and rates report is here
with us to talk us through this. What is
suddenly driving this spike in uh
borrowing in the repo market? Iris,
>> thank you for having me, David and
Annabelle. Um yeah so because China
already has this low rate environment
and the borrowing cost has been very
cheap um especially for financial
institutions um and recently uh the POC
has uh injected uh various uh liquidity
uh via various liquidity tools such as
the bond buying and outright reverse
repos um as well um as MLF um so the
markets are expecting uh even more
easing uh after the holiday um and
that's driving the rates lower and there
is also room for arbitrage uh and the
leverage bond buying. For example, if a
bond trader are borrowing uh uh via this
overnight repos and they buy the 10-year
uh bonds that will uh give them around
50 bps in return.
>> You mentioned uh Luna New Year and of
course that's really fast approaching.
What does it mean for liquidity
conditions overall then? Yeah, you know,
uh the lunar new year usually it's a
period where uh people will see the
stress in uh cash conditions and the
PBOC has been doing a lot recently uh
such as we use the 14-day reverse
ripples um as well as as I mentioned the
RAI reverse ripples as well. Um so
basically the authorities signal is very
clear that they want to keep the
liquidity uh uh abundant uh especially
when China is still having a sluggish
demand and a pro uh sluggish property
market as well. Um the PBC has vowed to
support the e economy uh this kind of
like a top down uh mandates that they
need to do. Um so the markets are
expecting there could be a rate cuts or
cha cut after the holiday. Um the
market's expectation for the uh funding
cost is that they will remain at low
level but it's hard for the overnight
repo rate to go further below the
current around 1 uh 20 uh%.
>> And how has the overall just the market
the liquidity conditions how has that
showed up in in these how has that
impacted markets? Um in summary, the uh
rich uh liquidity is uh helping the bond
market especially in recent days. We are
seeing the 10-year y drop to below 1.8%.
That was the lowest since November. Um
and traders are having quite some
discussion uh since yes since yesterday
on this rate because you know the uh
bond yields have been rangebound and
they are waiting for more catalyst to go
uh into the bond market especially you
know when China will resort to more
physical stimulus this year. Um so I
heard this morning that traders are
discussing there could be more bond
boosts coming back to the market. Oh
>> so it's possible that China is going to
have a bond and equity boos uh this
year. Okay, fireworks into the into the
new year, [laughter] right? There we go.
Next week, Iris, thank you. Fantastic.
Iris Oander, your FX and rates reporter.
>> Yeah, let's also take a look at some of
the moves in the session because uh
these are well, we're seeing some kind
of mixed moves here, but but some
downward pressure actually on some of
the insurance broker stocks that are
listed in Sydney this morning. It's a
it's actually quite an interesting story
because last week we had all of that
concern around the anthropic moves and
what that meant for the software
industry, legal software firms. Today
we've got a different story that's
that's in focus here, but it's more AI
disruption fears essentially because uh
there's a shopping platform in the US
called Insurify. They've just launched a
new tool that uses Chat GBT to compare
auto insurance rates uh using a few
different vehicles. We saw those stocks
really pummeled in the US. As I said,
it's translating to some of the Aussie
names in the session. But also taking a
look at SoftBank uh shares today because
we had SoftBank Corp uh reporting their
[music] figures. Uh we saw the
underlying oper operating profit beating
the brokerage forecast from SEMBC
[music]
Niko. But but essentially we actually
saw generally in line with expectations
[music] those figures. The stock though
is surging today.
It's 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo this morning.
Japanese markets are just about to go
into their lunch [music] break, but
they're going in on on a high note
essentially because lots of gains there.
You can see the nic 2.8% to the upside.
>> Yeah, and I think we were up over 3%
yesterday. I think if uh Aiden Yao who
joined us in the last hour talked about
how the equity market after the
elections is the cleanest way to play
the Japan optimism story and it's very
very clear to them in as far as the
value program and everything else that's
going on. It has obviously a very big AI
component now in Japan.
>> U so we're up 3% the topics is up by
two. Uh maybe just a close loop on the
commentary coming through from our
guests earlier on, Monica, who talked us
through is uh the canary in the coal
mine watch the JGB market. If and when
we get to a point where it's real
uh positive uh real yields are back
positive, that might be an indication of
flow. Something to watch. We're quite
some ways away, but just to say that's
something to watch. Okay. Um, Japan is
going into the break lifting the overall
benchmark 1.3% everything but utilities
as you can see on the screen. It is a
big component of course following this
rebound we're getting and you know we'll
get to the credit markets in a moment
just following that massive uh debt
offering uh that we're seeing not just
from overnight right just so far this
year massive amount of money has been
raised in the IG space in the debt
markets and it here is up 2% in the
equity markets and that goes into where
we are as far as the big AI plays in the
region plus of course NASDAQ futures
>> yeah well this has really been the big
story uh in the session on Wall Street
was this massive amount of debt issuance
that we got from Alphabet. So $20
billion that was issued that was way
ahead of expectations by the tune of $15
billion and and huge amount of investor
demand as well. So just really
interesting. We were been reflecting on
over the show today, but but we had
those concerns around capex spending
showing up in in the results and and
definitely we're seeing tech that's
really being the big beneficiary, I
guess, out of that amount of investor
appetite. TSMC of course is is one to
track there because you've got those
monthly sales figures coming out later
today. But huge GDP upgrade as well that
we got earlier.
>> Yeah. 8% uh now seen for for 2026.
That's a that's a revision from 4.5 and
I think it just talks to the overall
health and demand that the semiconductor
ecosystem is is seeing. But uh let's get
more on this and bring in Edward Chan.
He's portfolio manager and senior
investment analyst at Mir Assay Global
Investments. uh he manages global XAI
and technology active ETF that's and the
top holdings rather I should say in that
are Alphabet, Apple, TSMC, Nvidia and
Meta. So you've got a really nice
cross-section there of those two big
stories that we're tracking. But let's
just start off I think uh on this big
Alphabet move overnight because it it it
is a huge amount of issuance. It's a
it's a really key theme for this year is
just the amount of capex spending we
see. How are you looking at that and and
and what do you think that means for the
performance of of of your portfolio as
well?
>> Yeah. So I think a few things to unpack
here, right? So first is the CSPs capex
have revised up quite significantly,
right? And now they're coming up to
their operating cash flow. Essentially,
if you add up what you know the top CSPs
are spending on capex and then also
their some of the commitment for
buybacks and even some of them do
dividends. If you add those all up, you
know, the number is coming up to their
operating cash flow. And for Alphabet's
case, I think it will exceed because if
you look at their this year's probably
around 200 billion uh dollars of
operating cash flow, they already say at
the higher end 185 billion of capex,
right? Plus they do about 50 60 billions
of buyback plus the the um dividend. So
then you can see that number is
exceeding their operating cash flow,
right? So I think that's the case for a
lot of CSP. Therefore, they will have
to, you know, raise some money or tap
into their their their cash, right? So,
I think that's a reasonable step for
them to do. Not to mention that if you
look at the bond market, the spread is
so tight and so it's very beneficiary
for them to to raise uh bond now and if
you look at that particular issuance,
right? Actually, because as you
mentioned, the demand is so high that
their spread actually tightens
throughout the the pricing process. So,
I think that's what we're we're seeing
now in the market. Is that a good thing
that the the amount of money is reaching
what they taken from operations?
The reason I frame it that way was
because last year a [clears throat] big
capex number was a good thing somewhat
last few weeks a big capex number is not
exactly a good thing to some investors.
>> Yeah. So I think investors are looking
at this very dynamically right. If you
look at last year, Oracle I think is a
good example right when they guide these
very gigantic number then the market
actually penalized the stock because
people don't think that they are able to
fund it and it's not really sustainable
for for Oracle right so I think coming
into this year some of the top CSPs like
Google like Amazon if they're raising
their numbers to this kind of level I
think investors will have to see their
revenue especially from cloud and AI
accelerating to justify for that capex
right because now we're not really
looking at internet company anymore
you're more like a utility company if
you look at the sheer scale of capex
alphabet would be more than three times
what TSMC was spent on capex this year
right so that kind of number and TSMC is
one of the biggest manufacturing company
>> in the world right so that gives you a
sense of the scale that they're spending
today and I think that has to be
justified by accelerating um revenue
growth
>> we can get to TSMC in a moment I do just
want to just finish off though I guess
on on the overall narrative that we see
around big tech as well because we've
We've been through a couple of different
I guess uh chapters you could say and
and I do you think we're closing at all
the chapter on on bubble fears and
circular deals because if you think
about the last couple of weeks it's been
a lot more focus on the disruptive
capabilities of AI technology and you
saw that in the software stocks you're
sing seeing that in some of the the car
insurance stocks in in Australia but but
mainly US overnight. Do you think it's
it's shifting at all? Yeah, I think the
development the pace of development in
AI space is so quick, right? That even
if you look at just the past two weeks,
we see so many new things launching,
right? Whether is some of the products
anthropic launch that that caused this
whole shock wave across software or if
you look at things like the clawbot that
that people are using in open source
world that what people were able to do
with that and then plus you know some of
the Chinese models that are being
launched um like some of the video
generation models are also really
amazing to to see. So I think it's the
pace of innovation is so quick here that
you could see that once some of these
applications click right the the room is
is huge when if you especially if you're
able to be productive
>> with these API then there's really a lot
of room there to imagine you know how
how big could these tokens consumption
go and you have to remember all the CSPs
are are capacity constraint now they're
only able to grow as fast as they could
build their compute
>> right um does that inform you in any way
around.
So I think interesting that Bel brought
up the concept of you know can we close
the door on some of the early recent
concerns and you could tie that to you
know this I I want to say a narrative
it's more a projection of the rotation
broadening out beyond the mag seven as
someone who looks at an active portfolio
how do you what is your thesis and how
do you manage that if you believe the
thesis continues
>> yeah I think it's it's interesting to
observe how the industry is is
progressing right remember at the if you
look at the beginning of last year right
everybody's is also talking about the
same thing, right? If you're spending so
much on infrastructure, then should the
broadening of Rally go into the software
space and that hasn't been the case so
far, right? because I think a lot of
these AI applications are in companies
that are first probably not listed and
also in a lot of open- source project um
and that's kind of scattered around and
the sort of even the concept of a
company I think also changes right what
if is a developer in his bedroom that
come up with a amazing application where
millions of people use and they're able
to come up with you know innovative uh
ways to to generate revenue that might
not be the traditional form of company
that we know of that are listed or or
they are raising money in the sense that
we we we're very accustomed to right so
I think a lot of that development is
happening and there are a lot of you
know individual developers that are
making a lot of money um from these
applications right so I think we can't
just look at just the listed company and
and say okay maybe the application is
not really picking up I think it is
picking up but it's just in a very
different way than we you know have
observed in the past few cycles
>> let's just shift now to TSMC cuz we've
got those sales figures coming out. Of
course, they're just one indicator and
we're at the beginning of of the the
quarter as well for the business,
[clears throat] but we can probably
expect it to see strong sales just given
what we've already trended into the new
year on. But do you see at all the
upside for TSMC being constrained just
like we saw at the end of last year that
you just can't hold too much of it in
your portfolio as well?
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah. So my for me of course I'm I'm
already quite uh overweight on on TSMC
and then I think I'm not worried about
their their earnings or revenue growth
rate at all right because I think at the
moment everyone is fighting for capacity
uh if I look at the semiconductor supply
chain right it's really just again um
capacity constraint um customers asking
for a lot more capacity than suppliers
could could produce whether it's on
memory side or on the logic side TSMC um
so it's they're really just constrained
by how much they could build and how
much you utiliz how high is utilization
they could they could get to right and I
think from the past cycles of course for
the manufacturing companies they're
always concerned that you know in the
upcycle we don't want to overbuild
because once that demand fades then we
end up with over supply so I think all
the suppliers are quite cautious this
time given that the memory from the from
the co upcycle is still fresh from that
last semi-upcycle right so I think that
that's a healthier setup as we move
forward as long as you know some of the
bigger suppliers like TSMC like the
memory guys don't really go too
aggressively on on these.
>> How are you looking at that? The
emergence of memory.
>> Yeah, I think memory was bit of a shock
to be honest. I think for the whole
industry, right? I think nobody really
expected memory to demand to be this
high. I mean coming to this year, I
think in the in the first half of last
year, many people were worried about
even a down cycle um for memory. So I
think that AI capex really it's
continued to be a surprise on the
upside. Um I think not many people would
have bet AI capex will accelerate coming
into this year, right? Versus already
been such a strong year in the past two
years. Um, so I think that continues to
tie with the cycle of the overall AI
spending. And you can see that memory
for servers is squeezing the traditional
uh consumer sector, traditional PC
sector. And I think an interesting thing
to see here is that AI is actually
bringing inflation
to the world even before it increase
your productivity and and ease that
inflation pressure because
>> they're fighting for so much resource in
power
>> in semiconductor capacity.
>> Okay.
>> That the prices of other things are are
raising being driven up.
>> Yeah. Are being driven up. Right.
>> You also uh watch the China robotic
space closely. Uh so what are you seeing
there in terms of the roll out of
technologies and and the adoption as
well because it's it's we've had a lot
of calls around consolidation for
instance maybe being necessary already
in the China humanoid space. Yeah, I
think it's such an early stage in in the
humanoid space, right? I think that it's
just wide open for for everyone to to
fight for a share in that space. And I
think what China could really bring is
is the manufacturing capability, right?
In in the humanoid space where if you
look at um the vision for humanoid to be
um shipping at the in the millions of
units globally, you have to bring the
cost down, right? If a robot costs, you
know, three, four cars, then you're not
going to be able to afford it. A regular
family will not afford it, right? So you
really need I think China's supply chain
capability um to support that humanoid
roll out if humanoid robot is really the
vision is really going to come true and
the volume is going to hit that that
high number.
>> Edward fantastic. Very nice to see you.
>> Nice to see you too.
>> Edward Chan their portfolio manager,
senior investment analyst of course one
of the I think that's the passive
strategy we just saw on your screens
there, the the China robotics one.
There's also the active one which is the
global uh AI uh ETF listed here in Hong
Kong. There's the plug. All right. uh
out of me right there. Okay. Uh coming
up here uh we look at the darker side of
AI. Yeah, we didn't [music] really get
into that uh the last few minutes. Uh
how it's being used by scam centers to
[music] target more victims more quickly
uh resisting efforts to shut them down.
This is Bloomberg.
Here are some of the major political
stories we're following this morning.
And the Bank of France Governor Francois
Villoy has announced he will step down
in June. That's well before his term was
due to expire in October 2027. Villoy
says the decision is personal and it
clears the way for President Emanuel
Mcron to appoint his successor rather
than leaving the choice to a future
administration.
The US is warning American flagships to
stay as far as possible from Iranian
waters when navigating the straight of
Hamuz. In a maritime advisory, the US
says Iranian forces have attempted to
force commercial vessels into their
territorial waters as recently as
February [music] 3rd. The warning comes
after diplomatic talks in Oman which
were described by both sides as being
positive.
>> Right. Let's talk about AI and perhaps
the darker side of this and you know how
they talk about technology falling into
bad actors hands. Uh you have senior
Interpol officials saying criminals in
Southeast Asia are actually harnessing
cheap cheap AI tools to target larger
pools of potential victims at high
speed, keeping these scam centers
humming even as governments have been
cracking down or trying to crack down uh
on this space. Uh let's bring in our
chief Asia correspondent Rosalyn Mat uh
wrote the piece for us. Fantastic piece.
Ros, thank you so much for joining us.
But yeah, talk to us about the specific
technologies that they're using for them
to be able to evade uh the clearly the
the long arm of the law not being long
enough here.
>> Well, that's right. So, they're actually
using pretty cheap AI tools that are
available to a lot of people, chat, GBT,
large language models. And what that's
doing is changing in a way the whole
nature of the scam business and will
only accelerate over time. And that's
everything from the ads that are that
are used to lure people to go to
Southeast Asia for jobs. A couple of
years ago, those ads were pretty poorly
done. They had lots of red flags you
could spot. Now, Interpol and others are
saying those ads are getting
increasingly sophisticated. And then
there's the scams themselves that you
can run scams with fewer people. They
again are much more sophisticated. You
can use AI, for example, if you're a
male to mimic being a female. You can
even do that in video format if you're
trying to converse with someone online
as if you were a woman, for example, to
try and lure a man into investing in
cryptocurrency. So, there's lots of ways
it's showing up now in in the scam
business. And what they're saying is
it's making it, you know, scams, if
anything, even more cost effective and
low cost to do because it's a bit of an
anecdotal figure that gets bounced
around, but basically one person in a
scam center using AI effectively is
about the same as 10 to 20 other
physical bodies in a scam center. So
they can run these scams at much higher
scale at much lower cost as a result.
>> So more proliferation and and greater
sophistication. And there clearly
obviously challenges for for people that
are trying to catch these fraudsters,
but is there a way as well for for for
enforcement agencies to to try and use
these tools?
>> Well, that's right. They say on the flip
side, of course, they can use AI to try
and track scammers in real time faster.
And also, they note that because of the
use of cryptocurrency, they're really
trying to focus on efforts to trace
cryptocurrency a lot faster. Uh but that
all depends on coordination. uh and
there's a lot of countries involved in
this, a lot of agencies involved in
this. You have people who are looking at
different aspects of this cyber, human
trafficking, money, are they all
coordinating in the way that they
should. You know, you have tensions
right now between Cambodia and Thailand
over their border. You know, agencies
and and countries say it's difficult to
coordinate with Myanmar and Cambodia
directly on this. In order to really use
AI properly across borders to track
scams, they do need lots of countries to
cooperate. And that's one ongoing
challenge that Interpol also talks
about.
>> Ros, really fascinating piece and
definitely worth reading as well. That
was our Bloomberg chief Asia
correspondent Ros Mat there. And a
reminder of our new online feature
that's the Bloomberg video hub.
Subscribers can explore live streaming,
news, and interviews. all of our
Bloomberg TV shows, documentaries,
reporter analysis, and more. So, do
check it out at bloomberg.com/videos.
This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Well, the IMF [music] managing director
Cristina Georg Gaver has downplayed the
dollar's decline over the past year.
Speaking to Bloomberg at an emerging
market conference in Saudi Arabia,
Georga said the US currency should
retain its preeminent position.
>> We should not get carried away by
short-term
variations of the uh exchange rate of
the dollar. uh and we should look
closely as to why the dollar plays such
an important role in the international
monetary system. Uh first over time we
have seen the dollar going up and down.
Uh and actually the dollar being
somewhat down now is good for many
emerging markets. Those that borrowing
dollars now have to pay a bit less. M
>> uh but also what we know is that the
reason the dollar plays such an
important role is the depth and
liquidity of capital markets in the
United States, the size of the economy,
the entrepreneurial spirit of the US. So
uh I don't see a change in the role of
the dollar uh in anytime soon.
>> Okay. So you don't see that changing
anytime soon. The other uh I was just
watching the panel now with his
excellency Mr. Jadan and he mentioned
that markets can be brutal particularly
when it comes to economy spending plans
and fiscal and rebuilding fiscal buffers
is another big narrative that has
emerged out of this conference.
>> Do you think that countries are taking
this seriously enough especially when
again investors are tending to punish
countries that seem to be over borrowing
right now?
>> Well, countries better take it
seriously. Uh what has happened over the
last couple of years is COVID, the war
in Ukraine, they all led to government
spending more to support businesses and
households, rightly so at that time. But
what is the result? Fiscal buffers
almost everywhere are depleted and
shocks are still to come. Therefore,
what we say to everybody to advanced
economies to emerging markets and
developing economies is now is somewhat
better time we have seen the world
economy quite resilient to these shocks.
>> Please concentrate on rebuilding these
buffers. You need to have a medium-term
prospect for how your fiscal position
can be strengthened to withstand the
shocks that inevitably will come. uh how
are governments doing some better than
others? Yeah. And I can tell you where
I'm particularly concerned is for
vulnerable
middle income, lowincome countries uh
that are particularly
stretched today. Uh so what we want is
not only for them to do the right thing
but also for the world to be mindful of
these countries. We have seen
development assistance going down. Well,
we have a responsibility for stability
and security in the world
>> help these countries.
>> There you go. IMF managing director with
of course our colleague there Joanna in
Saudi uh Arabia. Okay. Uh let's very
quickly go through these markets. Some
big moves as we close out the show here.
Massive move first day of trade. Um, are
we looking at this? Uh,
>> I think we've moved to markets. Yeah.
Oh, nope.
>> Oh,
>> there we go.
>> Just a reminder of how big [laughter]
First Day at school can be. Not in many
cases traumatizing if you look at it
that way. 560% onshore markets. Uh,
debuting today. Uh, we gave you a little
bit of a tease at the rally earlier on.
Nick K on the break. Uh, massive move
going into the lunch break there. Cosby,
the TX index. You have two things. TSMC
is out with monthly sales plus this
massive uh upgrade coming through out of
VFA from 4 and a half to 8% GDP growth
in 2026. Uh things are going well.
Hanging index coming up on your screens
how we've done since the open about uh
going on 19 minutes now on the hanging
index and off highs of the day 710 to
1%. Um but the currency continuing
[music] to strengthen here 2023 highs uh
on the yuan dollar weaker. That's it
from us. We'll see you all [music]
tomorrow.